Instructor: So now we're going
to use string concatenation
and substrings to take
a makeBeat() beatString
and turn it into something
much longer
than the original string.
I have here my usual beginnings
of an EarSketch script
in Python:
importing the EarSketch library,
calling the init() function,
and setting Tempo.
And then I've defined
a 16-character beatString,
and I've defined
another variable
to represent a sound
from the EarSketch library
that I want to use to realize
that beatString.
And then down here,
you can see I'm calling
the makeBeat() function
with that sound on track 1,
measure 1, in that beat.
And we can hear
what that sounds like.
[electronic drum beat]
So now I want to make
that string a lot longer,
but I don't just want
to repeat that exact beat
over and over and over again.
I want it to kind of change
and evolve as it's repeating.
So I've written this function
called expander()
which takes in a beatString
and returns
a much, much longer beatString.
And the way it does that
is like this.
Here's the beatString
that I created,
and here is the beatString
that it's going to return.
And the way it does that
is it starts with
just the first character
of the original beatString,
and then the first two,
and then the first three,
and then the first four,
and then the first five,
and so on
until it's gotten to all 16.
And each time it's taken
one of those substrings,
it adds it on,
it concatenates it to everything
that it's built so far.
So that's how
we go through this process
and then concatenate
all these together to end up
with this much longer beatString
that we get as a result.
So let's go through the code
of this expander() function
to see exactly what it does.
We start by defining
a new variable called newBeat
which is an empty string—
that's simply
a beginning quotation mark
and an ending quotation mark
with nothing in the middle.
So we're starting off
with something empty
that we can then add on to.
And then we have a for loop
for i in range 0
to the length of beatString.
So i will start off being 0,
then 1, then 2, then 3, then 4,
all the way up to 15.
And each time we go through,
we're taking a beatSlice using
our slice notation in Python.
So we're taking beatString
starting at character 0,
ending at character i.
So the first time,
that would be from 0 to 0.
The next time, from 0 to 1.
The next time, from 0 to 2.
Until it goes all the way
up to 0 to 15.
And each time I go
through that for loop,
when I get that beatSlice,
I then concatenate it
on to the end of newBeat.
So that's what the
newBeat=newBeat+beatSlice does.
It says "take everything I have
for newBeat so far
and add this new beatSlice
on to the end."
Once that for loop
is all finished,
I will have created this beat—
this new, longer beat—
and I just return it
as the last line of my function.
So if we want to see
how that works,
I can go ahead and switch
to another makeBeat() call here.
So I have a variable
called finalBeat
and I'm assigning to finalBeat
the result of calling expander()
with initialBeat.
I'm then printing that out
to the console
so that we can see
that finalBeat down here.
And then I'm calling
my makeBeat() function with—
instead of calling
with initialBeat
like we did before,
now I'm calling it
with finalBeat.
So if I press run,
we can see that entire, longer,
expanded beatString
and we can listen to it.
[electronic drum beats]